Document procedures and communication for L1/beta launches (#83)
sourcegraph/handbook: content/product/product_management/rollout_process.md

Product features fall into different buckets depending on how much engagement with marketing is needed. Definitions for [L1, L2, and L3 launches](../../marketing/product-marketing/marketing_launch_tiers.md) can be found in the marketing handbook.

## Communications

How we communicate about features is important, especially as it relates to feature roll-out.

### Pre-release features

> It's important we communicate clearly about pre-release features so that we do not cause confusion around customers thinking features are generally available, that they aren't going to change, or even that they couldn't be taken away if we find they aren't working.

Author: ```suggestion
We always aim to communicate clearly about pre-release features so that we do not cause confusion around customers thinking features are generally available, that they aren't going to change, or even that they couldn't be taken away if we find they aren't working.
```

> 1. Prior to the official launch of the feature, we should focus on the problems we are solving, rather than that feature x will definitely include scope y and/or be delivered on z date. For example, we can talk about our ultimate goal of xMM repos indexed and the reason why we are focused on it, or how we’re working on helping teams problems around a specific batch changes use case, and that we're looking for feedback. This can (and should) include some specifics, but that doesn’t need to be the emphasis because people care more about the problems we’re solving anyway.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Prior to the official launch of the feature, we should focus on the problems we are solving, rather than that feature x will definitely include scope y and/or be delivered on z date. For example, we can talk about our ultimate goal of making it easy to search and discover open source code and the reason why we are focused on it, or how we’re working on helping teams problems around a specific batch changes use case, and that we're looking for feedback. This can (and should) include some specifics, but that doesn’t need to be the emphasis because people care more about the problems we’re solving anyway.
```

> 1. Prior to the official launch of the feature, we should focus in communication on the problems we are solving, rather than that feature x will definitely include scope y and/or be delivered on z date. For example, we can talk about our ultimate goal of xMM repos indexed and the reason why we are focused on it, or how we’re working on helping teams problems around a specific batch changes use case, and that we're looking for feedback. This can (and should) include some specifics, but that doesn’t need to be the emphasis because people care more about the problems we’re solving anyway.

Author: ```suggestion
1. Prior to the official launch of the feature, we should focus on the problems we are solving, rather than that feature x will definitely include scope y and/or be delivered on z date. For example, we can talk about our ultimate goal of xMM repos indexed and the reason why we are focused on it, or how we’re working on helping teams problems around a specific batch changes use case, and that we're looking for feedback. This can (and should) include some specifics, but that doesn’t need to be the emphasis because people care more about the problems we’re solving anyway.
```

1. Whenever communicating publicly about pre-release features, we should use the [beta and experimental labels](../beta_and_experimental_feature_labels.md) so we don’t create confusion, and be sure we note that final capabilities of the feature might change. This includes social media, on the website, documentation, release post, changelog, handbook, in the app, or anywhere else. Documentation, as it is long-lived and not tied to a moment in time, should indicate when a feature became generally available.

> Public beta testing by its nature involves sharing more detail, showing and letting people use things that are still unreleased, and which can change or even be abandoned before they go live. That’s fine to do, as long as we follow the above principles.

Reviewer: @amieroth @jyavorska - are there any places where we don't want to communicate about betas/pre-release features (on the homepage of the about site) and other places where we're more comfortable (release post, in the product, etc.)? I don't think these will be hard and fast rules, but rather general guidance.

Author: Nothing comes to mind @abschu, as long as we clearly indicate that it's pre-release. Updates for the about site would go through the additional product director or marketing review per the discussion above, so there would be some built-in oversight.

Author: @abschu I'm resolving this, but of course if something comes to mind to add later that discussion is welcome.

### L1 launches and milestones

> L1 launches ([full definition in marketing handbook](../../marketing/product-marketing/marketing_launch_tiers#l1-launch)) are special: we don't do them frequently, but when we do we engage an additional layer of collaboration around them to avoid misunderstandings around how these important features will move from development to general availability.

Author: ```suggestion
L1 launches ([full definition in marketing handbook](../../marketing/product-marketing/marketing_launch_tiers.md#l1-launch)) are special: we don't do them frequently, but when we do we engage an additional layer of collaboration around them to avoid misunderstandings around how these important features will move from development to general availability.
```

> 1. Two months prior to an L1 feature’s planned release date, a collaboration document (a Google doc is fine) should be opened and shared with marketing, product, PR, and any other teams who have a role in the launch, depending on the feature.

Reviewer: @jyavorska @amieroth - All L1 launches will have a dedicated PMM. The PMM team uses this product marketing brief template for L1 launches. What are your thoughts on adding some of the product-specific bullets and using this? The PM/PMM can collaborate on it together.

https://docs.google.com/document/d/1i-n7WKQrAMVAdCaGAX0shW1DbJ70cnnGkkb6yReOOPA/edit#

Author: That seems great @abschu!

```suggestion
1. Two months prior to an L1 feature’s planned release date, a collaboration document (using this [planning template](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1i-n7WKQrAMVAdCaGAX0shW1DbJ70cnnGkkb6yReOOPA/edit#)) should be opened and shared with marketing, product, PR, and any other teams who have a role in the launch, depending on the feature.
```

1. At the same time, a regular sync should be created for the team. This could be a sync meeting, async Slack channel, a mix or other approach, as long as everyone agrees.

Within the document and as part of keeping in sync, you should track the following (linking to other sources of truth as necessary, rather than creating an additional source of truth here):

- What the current estimate of launch date is
- High level how the feature will work and what capabilities it will have
- How it will be priced
- Marketing plan
- Any beta/experimental phases that are planned, including which components of the beta will remain free or become paid
- What (if any) parts of the feature will have public communications minimized so that they can be used by PR/marketing around the launch

> It’s expected that these points will change over the period heading towards launch; the purpose is not to get everything right but to stay on the same page on the important points as they evolve. The same procedure would also be followed for milestone-type features, such as hitting a certain repository indexing milestone, but the document would be relatively simpler in that case.

Author: ```suggestion
It’s expected that these points will change over the period heading towards launch; the purpose is not to get everything right from the beginning and lock it in, but to stay on the same page on the important points as they evolve. The same procedure would also be followed for milestone-type features, such as hitting a certain repository indexing milestone, but the document would be relatively simpler in that case.
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Product, product marketing, and comms will work together on the launch and comms plan for every stage through GA to ensure a cohesive message for prospects, customers, and the market. 

1. All customer-facing/public comms should be reviewed by marketing for L1 launches. 
```

@amieroth @jyavorska - I added these two points. Let me know what you think.
